

                              King's Out 0.2.42
                             
                                   README

                               June, 14th 2006
                               
                               
                                 
                (C) copyright 2004-2006 by Bernd Nuernberger
                          
                          
                                 
DISCLAIMER

This program is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. It's a spare
time project given away for no charge. I've done my best to avoid any errors.
But don't hold me responsible, if it does not fit your means or does any
unintended damage to you or your computer. Last but not least, don't blame me
for my bad english, because it's not my mother tongue.


LICENSE

This program is freeware. You may use it and distribute it freely as long as
you don't charge a fee for it. You may also copy parts of the code as long as
you give credit to me somewhere in your program and don't blame me for any
errors/lacks of quality it certainly has ;-)



1. WHAT IS KING'S OUT?

King's Out is a chess engine, written in Java. It's a spare time project of
myself, I started in January 2004. It has undergone some major rewrites but
the code is far away from being really good. Writing an engine in Java is
always a trade off in code quality and performance. C++ would be better from
this point of view because in C++ it's easier to write good and fast code.
But I like Java very much and it's my language of choice.

King's Out comes with an interface to XBoard and a native text interface.

At this time, I would name King's Out an "outsearcher". It searches deeper than
many other weak engines. This makes it rather strong for a Java based engine
without many sophisticated evaluation terms. Therefor it is tactically strong,
but has no deeper understanding of the positions it searches. Fast & dumb :-)
Some basic pawn knowledge has been added with version 0.2.41, but the weights
are not tuned at all. It may be even weaker now compared to version 0.2.40.

But first steps are done in the right dircection concerning a better static
position evaluation.

2. XBOARD INTERFACE

You can start King's Out in XBoard mode by just running the JAR archive:

    java -jar kingsout.jar
    
For more information about XBoard resp. WinBoard see Tim Mann's page:

    http://tim-mann.org/xboard.html
    
Supported XBoard commands:

    - ?
    - black
    - easy
    - force
    - go
    - hard
    - hint
    - level
    - new
    - nopost
    - name
    - ping
    - playother
    - post
    - quit :-)
    - remove
    - sd
    - setboard
    - st
    - time
    - undo
    - white
    
    
3. NATIVE TEXT INTERFACE

Not very sophisticated but can nethertheless be used to play games and seems to
work properly. Just start with:

    java -jar kingsout.jar -T
    
Enter 'help' to get a brief help on every command.


4. OUTRO

If you have suggestions or find any bug, please don't hestitate to drop me a
line:

    nuerberg@fmi.uni-passau.de
    
Thanks!!!
